First thing I'd like to do is to define a few terms. The first term I'd like to define is the term harmony. What is harmony? Harmony is the study of chords and scales and melodies and how we typically hear them when music is played. Another term we'd like to help you define is the term ear training, which helps you to do something like this. So, what is ear training? Simply put ear training identifies what your ear hears and we will do exercises to train your ear to be more effective. Now, the first thing we'd like to do is we'd like to start with the C-major scale. Everything we do is going to come from the C-major scale, and if you look at the screen you'll see a C-major scale. There are the names of the notes, underneath that you have the solfege syllables. Do, Re, Mi, Fa, So, La, Ti, Do. Then, you have what we call the scale degrees. The first degree of the scale C, second degree is D, third degree is E, F is the fourth degree, and so on. So, I'm going to play the C-major scale. I want you to sing that scale with me with the names of the notes. We'll start with C. We go one, two, C, D, E, F, G, A, B, C. This time we're going to sing the solfege syllables. Do, Re, Mi, Fa, So, La, Ti, Do. Now, we'll sing the scale degrees. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 1. That's the major scale. You want to get to know that major scale very well. Next, I'd like to define the term interval. Simply put an interval is the distance between two notes. So, if I played a C here and then, I played say an F, that will be a perfect fourth. We're going from the root which is the one to the four. That's an interval. This would be an interval C to E. That's a major third. An interval is the distance between notes. To major third. That will be a perfect fifth. I'm going to one to the five. That would be a major sixth. So, again an interval is the distance between two notes. So, those three terms; harmony, ear training, and intervals along with the major scale are going to give the foundation that you're going to need to be successful not only in this class, but throughout your musical career.