[MUSIC] Okay, so the first thing I'd like
to do in this segment is review. We're going to review what an interval is. Okay, so what is an interval? Right, the distance between two notes. So if I went from C to E. The one to the three, that will be a? Right, a major third. But if I went C to A? Right, a major six. La, la, sing that with me. La, la. Major six. Next, I'd like to talk about
whole steps and half steps. And as you see on the screen, there is
a keyboard that has whole steps and half steps. A half step,
if I started on C to D flat or C sharp. Why don't we call it C
sharp since we're going up. C to C sharp, that would be a half step. So you're going one note to
the next available note up, that would be a half step. If I went from C to D,
that would be a whole step, because a whole step is
two half steps together. [MUSIC] So we have C, C sharp half step,
C to D would be a whole step. D to E would be another whole step. Now E to F would be a half step, okay? E to F. It's kind of tricky because
there's no black note in between. E to F, half step. E to F sharp would be a whole step. Now it's very important that you
understand the difference between whole steps and half steps because that is how
we're going to construct a major scale. Now a major scale is
constructed like this. [MUSIC] Whole step, whole step,
half step, whole step, whole step, whole step, half step. One more time, so it's in C, whole step, whole step, half step, whole step, whole step, whole step, half step. Now I could play that major scale
starting at any pitch from the piano and use that same construction, and
I would have a major scale. If I started on C sharp, whole step, whole step, half step, whole step, whole step, whole step, half step. We did a major scale. If I started on an E, whole step, whole step, half step, whole step, whole step, whole step, half step. That's how a major scale is constructed. That's where we get, [MUSIC] C major scale from. Here's a good way to remember
the major scale, if you sing it. Whole step, whole step, half step. Whole step, whole step,
whole step, half step. [MUSIC] Again, whole step, whole step, half step, whole step, whole step,
whole step, half step. [MUSIC] Whole step, whole step, half step. Whole step, whole step,
whole step, half step. [MUSIC] Whole step, whole step, half step. Whole step, whole step,
whole step, half step. Well that will help you to remember it. Songs always help me to remember things. So, hopefully that helps.